sudoku
========
https://github.com/francesquini/sudoku

This is a sequential Sudoku solver which uses Peter Norvig’s constraint propagation method: http://norvig.com/sudoku.html to solve arbitrarily large (square) Sudoku puzzles.

This was one of the problems used during the [11th Marathon of Parallel Programming](http://lspd.mackenzie.br/marathon/16/). To count the number os solutions instead of finding a solution compile with `-DSUDOKU_SOLVE_STRATEGY=SUDOKU_COUNT_SOLS`.

Solving arbitrarily large puzzles
---------------------------------

Although not strictly necessary, we will assume valid Sudoku puzzles are squares, i.e, the number of cells in each line is the same number of cells in each column. Let N be the number of cells of a line. We will also assume valid puzzles have N boxes with N cells each and there is no intersection between the cells of each box. Clearly, traditional 9x9 Sudoku puzzles observe all of these properties. However, this definition gives as a nice way to extend grid sizes arbitrarily. Any grid of size N xN where N = n 2 for n = 3, 4, 5, . . ., such as 9x9, 16x16, and 25x25, with cell values ranging from 1 to N is now a valid grid size. We deliberately leave out of the definition n values below 3, since here we are only interested in bigger puzzles.

While traditionally Sudoku puzzles have only one solution, when compiled with 
`-DSUDOKU_SOLVE_STRATEGY=SUDOKU_COUNT_SOLS` 
the code will count the number of solutions instead of printing them. For more information on the reasons motivating this decision, please refer to the [Problem C description](http://lspd.mackenzie.br/marathon/16/problemset.pdf) of the 11th Marathon of Parallel Programming.

Notes
-----
The example inputs were generated by the code written by C. Ansotegui, R. Bejar, C. Fernandez, C. Gomes and C. Mateu, as described in:
- The Impact of Balancing on Problem Hardness in a Highly Structured Domain, Proceedings of the AAAI 2006
